So after we've taken off a couple of belly
chops, now,
what we're going to do
is we're going to remove the side ribs.
Side ribs are simply an extension
of the back ribs off the loin,
and we decided where we wanted
to break off the belly from the loin,
which would determine the length
or the size of the side ribs
and the size of the back ribs.
So again, each cut affecting the other.
This is what we ended up for side ribs.
So when we're taking off our side ribs
it is a very delicate balance
because we don't want to take off
so much meat
that we're minimizing the amount
that we have on the belly .
And we don't want to take off so little
that we have no meat on the side rib
or the spare ribs
So just a bit of a delicate dance.
So what I like to do is I'll be very,
kind of involved in this cut.
I just want to come in with my knife
and I'm going to be running it,
the legs underneath the ribs, so this is
going to allow me to kind of monitor
the amount of meat that I'm leaving
on the ribs themselves and I'll run
my thumb under just to kind of monitor
my progress as I'm coming through
. And I'll remove my side ribs like so
and then what I can do is I'm using
this skirt steak again of this diaphragm
muscle as my marker because this is where
I want to run my knife under there.
It's cartilage under here
so I can get my knife
and just come under
and remove the side ribs like so .
OK, so we've got our side ribs. OK,
now what we've got is
there's still a little bit
of the cartilage in here
and I'm going to go ahead and remove that
before we start talking about the bacon.
So I'm just going to come under this skirt
steak here
and I'm going to run my knife.
Under it to separate it
from that cartilage that I can pretty much
just pull right out like so
so that cartilage has been removed
now is a totally boneless piece.
So now we get a good look
at what would traditionally
be known as bacon, right.
But before it becomes bacon,
it needs to be cured
and it needs to be smoked.